Runtime Python updates (#2643)
astronomer/docs: astro/runtime-release-notes.md

To upgrade Astro Runtime, see [Upgrade Astro Runtime](upgrade-runtime.md). For general product release notes, see [Astro Release Notes](release-notes.md). If you have any questions or a bug to report, contact [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support).

## Astro Runtime 9.0.0

> - Release date: August 10, 2023

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Release date: August 18, 2023
```

As part of this change, the base image for a given Astro Runtime version now uses the same Python version as the Apache Airflow release it's bundled with. In Runtime 9.0.0, that version is Python 3.11. If you want to ensure that you keep using the same version of Python across multiple Astro Runtime upgrades, Astronomer recommends that you begin to use the Python distribution for your required Python version.

### Upgrade to Python 3.11

The base image for Astro Runtime now uses Python 3.11. If you want to use a different version of Python, replace your image with the appropriate Python distribution of Astro Runtime.

### Additional improvements

- Upgraded `astronomer-providers` to 1.17.3. See the [`astronomer-providers` changelog](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer-providers/blob/main/CHANGELOG.rst#1173-2023-08-07) for a complete list of changes.
- Upgraded `astro-sdk-python` to 1.6.2. See the [Astro Python SDK changelog](https://astro-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/CHANGELOG.html#id1) for a complete list of changes.

> 

Reviewer: `openlineage-airflow` was also upgraded to `1.0.0`

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- Upgraded `openlineage-airflow` to 1.0.0. See the [OpenLineage blog](https://openlineage.io/blog/1.0-release/) for a summary of what's arrived in OpenLineage's first 1.x version.
```

> - Upgraded `openlineage-airflow` to 1.0.0. See the [OpenLineage blog](https://openlineage.io/blog/1.0-release/) for a summary of what's arrived in OpenLineage's first 1.x version.

Author: ```suggestion
- Upgraded `openlineage-airflow` to 1.0.0. See the [OpenLineage blog](https://openlineage.io/blog/1.0-release/) for a summary of what's arrived in OpenLineage's first 1.x version.

```

- Release date: August 18, 2023
- Airflow version: 2.7.0

### Airflow 2.7

Astro Runtime 9 is based on Airflow 2.7, which includes a number of new features and improvements. Most notably, Airflow 2.7 includes the following changes:

- Setup and teardown tasks are new type of task that you can use to prepare resources and configurations for specific tasks, ensuring that they always have resources even when you retry failed tasks. See [Use setup and teardown tasks in Airflow](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/airflow-setup-teardown) to learn how to use these tasks.
- You can now clear task groups or mark them as successful/failed from the Airflow UI **Grid View** just like individual tasks.
- You can now set `operators.default_deferrable` in your Airflow config to always use the deferrable version of an operator if one is available, meaning that you no longer have to update import statements in DAGs to replace traditional operators with deferrable ones. 

To learn more, see the [Apache Airflow 2.7.0 release notes](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/release_notes.html#airflow-2-7-0-2023-08-14).

### New Python version distributions of Astro Runtime

> Each new version of Astro Runtime now has separate distributions for Python 3.8, 3.9. 3.10 and 3.11. Using a Python distribution of Astro Runtime is the easiest way to use a specific Python version in Airflow. Image tags for Python distributions are formatted as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each new version of Astro Runtime now has separate distributions for Python 3.8, 3.9. 3.10 and 3.11. Using a Python distribution of Astro Runtime is the easiest way to use a specific Python version in Airflow. 

Specify the Python version you want to use with an image tag, which is formatted as:
```

```text
quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:<runtime-version>-python-<python-version>
```

For example, to use Python 3.8 in Astro Runtime 9.0.0, you would replace the image tag in your Astro project Dockerfile with `quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:9.0.0-python-3.8`.

> As part of this change, the base image for a given Astro Runtime version now uses the same Python version as the Apache Airflow release it's bundled with. In Runtime 9.0.0, that version is Python 3.11. If you want to ensure that you keep using the same version of Python across multiple Astro Runtime upgrades, Astronomer recommends that you begin to use the Python distribution for your required Python version.

Reviewer 3: Same here. "the same Python version as the Apache Airflow release it's bundled with" also doesn't make sense and should be reworded.

> As part of this change, the base image for a given Astro Runtime version now uses the same Python version as the Apache Airflow release it's bundled with. In Runtime 9.0.0, that version is Python 3.11. If you want to ensure that you keep using the same version of Python across multiple Astro Runtime upgrades, Astronomer recommends that you begin to use the Python distribution for your required Python version.

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to ensure that you keep using the same version of Python across multiple Astro Runtime upgrades, Astronomer recommends that you begin to use the Python distribution for your required Python version.
```

> As part of this change, the base image for a given Astro Runtime version now uses the same Python version as the Apache Airflow release it's bundled with. In Runtime 9.0.0, that version is Python 3.11. If you want to ensure that you keep using the same version of Python across multiple Astro Runtime upgrades, Astronomer recommends that you begin to use the Python distribution for your required Python version.
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As part of this change, the base image for a given Astro Runtime version now uses the same Python version as the Apache Airflow release it's bundled with. In Runtime 9.0.0, that version is Python 3.11. If you want to ensure that you keep using the same version of Python across multiple Astro Runtime upgrades, Astronomer recommends that you begin to use the Python distribution for your required Python version.

```

To upgrade Astro Runtime, see [Upgrade Astro Runtime](upgrade-runtime.md). For general product release notes, see [Astro Release Notes](release-notes.md). If you have any questions or a bug to report, contact [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support).

## Astro Runtime 9.0.0

- Release date: August 10, 2023
- Airflow version: 2.7.0

### Airflow 2.7

Astro Runtime 9 is based on Airflow 2.7, which includes a number of new features and improvements. Most notably, Airflow 2.7 includes the following changes:

> - Setup and teardown tasks are new type of task that you can use to manage execution resources and configurations for a subset of tasks. See [Use setup and teardown tasks in Airflow] fo more information on how to use these tasks.

Author: ```suggestion
- Setup and teardown tasks are new type of task that you can use to prepare resources and configurations for specific tasks, ensuring that they always have resources even when you retry failed tasks. See [Use setup and teardown tasks in Airflow](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/airflow-setup-teardown) to learn how to use these tasks.
```

> - You can now task groups or mark them as successful/failed from the Airflow UI **Grid View** just like individual tasks.

Author: ```suggestion
- You can now clear task groups or mark them as successful/failed from the Airflow UI **Grid View** just like individual tasks.
```

To learn more, see the [Apache Airflow 2.7.0 release notes](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/release_notes.html#airflow-2-7-0-2023-08-14).

### New Python version distributions of Astro Runtime

Each new version of Astro Runtime now has separate distributions for Python 3.8, 3.9. 3.10 and 3.11. Using a Python distribution of Astro Runtime is the easiest way to use a specific Python version in Airflow. Image tags for Python distributions are formatted as:

```text
quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:<runtime-version>-python-<python-version>
```

For example, to use Python 3.8 in Astro Runtime 9.0.0, you would replace the image tag in your Astro project Dockerfile with `quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:9.0.0-python-3.8`.

As part of this change, the base image for a given Astro Runtime version now uses the same Python version as the Apache Airflow release it's bundled with. In Runtime 9.0.0, that version is Python 3.11. If you want to ensure that you keep using the same version of Python across multiple Astro Runtime upgrades, Astronomer recommends that you begin to use the Python distribution for your required Python version.

> ### New slim distribution of Astro Runtime
> 
> Astronomer now maintains a slimmed down distribution of Astro Runtime with only the packages necessary for running Airflow on Astro. To be able to continue sending task logs, this version also includes some proprietary logging tools to replace larger cloud provider packages. The image tags for slim distributions for Astro Runtime are formatted as:
> 
> TBD

Author: ```suggestion
```
